1. P.T. Barnum & FIRE: I thought the group would find this interesting… P.T. Barnum's "The Art of Money Getting, or Golden Rules for Making Money" is a book that offers advice on how to achieve financial success. While Barnum was a showman, the book focuses on practical principles rather than get-rich-quick schemes. Here's a summary of its key points:  Choose the right vocation: Select a career that suits your interests and talents.  Be diligent and persistent: Hard work and perseverance are essential for success.  Avoid debt: Keep your expenses lower than your income.  Invest wisely: Don't gamble with your money or invest in things you don't understand.  Be systematic in your business: Organize your work and manage your finances carefully.  Maintain integrity: Honesty and fair dealing are important for long-term success.  Don't be afraid to take calculated risks: While caution is important, you also need to be bold in your endeavors.  Practice thrift: Save money and avoid unnecessary expenses.  In essence, Barnum's book emphasizes the importance of hard work, financial prudence, and sound business practices as the keys to achieving wealth. Enjoy…

2. From Minimum Wage to $5.5M by Age 40. The 15-Book Reading List that Helped!: I'm seeing a lot of young folks with a really aggressive FIRE goal who are seeking advice. These are the 15 must-read books (in order) that helped me generate nearly $6 million in less than three years in the stock market. Hopefully, they can help you reach your retirement goals too. Enjoy!  The Psychology of Speculation (Henry Howard Harper) Rich Dad Poor Dad (Robert Kiyosaki) Think and Grow Rich (Napoleon Hill) Outliers: The Story of Success (Malcom Gladwell) The Psychology of Money (Morgan Housel) The Snowball: Warren Buffett and the Business Life (Alice Schroeder) David and Goliath: Underdogs, Misfits, and the Art of Battling Giants (Malcom Gladwell) Rationality (Steven Pinker) Moneyball (Michael Lewis) Poor Charlie's Almanack (Peter Kaufman) Seeking Wisdom: From Darwin to Munger (Peter Bevelin) Thinking in Bets (Annie Duke) The Tao of Warren Buffett (Mary Buffett) The Tao of Charlie Munger (David Clark) The Intelligent Investor (Ben Graham)

3. There Goes My Hero by Ben Carlson: My family took its first and only Disney trip in the summer of 1990. We rode some rollercoasters. Went to one of the waterparks. Decently fun trip from what I can remember as a 4th grader. The strange part was that my older brother Jon was lethargic the whole trip. I still remember a picture of him taking a nap on a bench in the middle of the day. Something was off. I was nine, so I didn’t think anything of it. My mother, a registered nurse, knew something was wrong so when we got home, they took Jon to the doctor. He was diagnosed with a rare form of leukemia just before heading into the 7th grade. It was a gut punch for our family. There were no specialists in our area, so my mom and brother were forced to move to Minneapolis to receive treatment. The Ronald McDonald House became a home away from home. The prognosis wasn’t good. Jon endured months of chemotherapy and radiation, after which the only solution was a bone marrow transplant. My parents weren’t a match. Luckily, my sister and I were both were. I was the bone marrow donor. There was no guarantee it would work, but miraculously, it did. Jon’s cancer went into remission. It was a terrible year for our family but Jon was a trooper. He never once complained. Even though he lived in the hospital on and off for months at a time and lost all of his hair he never felt sorry for himself. He was so strong. Although it was a difficult period for Jon and our family to endure, we moved on and tried to put it in the rearview mirror. We felt like we dodged a bullet. Jon wasn’t so lucky. In his 20s, he contracted pancreatitis. There was a lengthy surgery that seemed to jumble up his insides for years to come. Something never felt right after that. Unfortunately, life can be cruel. Last year, he was diagnosed with stage 4 pancreatic cancer. Last week he passed away just shy of his 46th birthday. Jon was a tough son of a bitch and went out swinging. The original plan was to manage the pancreatic cancer with chemo until Jon died but he didn’t want to just wither away. He called specialists all over the country, finally finding a doctor who would give him an experimental drug that allowed him to stop receiving chemo. And it actually worked for a while. The cancer spread slowed. Eventually it would stop working but it gave us an extra six months or so. He looked normal again — started riding his bike, traveling and living life. You wouldn’t have been able to tell by looking at him that he was sick. A surgeon in New York said they would operate, which wasn’t on the table at the outset. It was a very low chance of success but he didn’t want to sit around waiting to die. Jon was going out fighting. All of the treatments and illnesses finally caught up with him and he died from complications in surgery. No regrets. It’s what he wanted. We all feel like his soul was too big and powerful for his body. I’m feeling all of the emotions one would expect from a tragedy like this — numb, depressed, some shock mixed with a little anger and bitterness. I’m mostly sad for his wife and three kids who didn’t deserve this. Grief is strange. Although you know millions and millions of other people have felt it, it still feels like the most personal of all emotions. I guess it is in some ways depending on the person and how they were lost. At times, I’ve felt like there’s a black cloud hanging over my head. Other times, it’s as if there is a dull knife stuck in the back of my head. Sometimes it crashes into you all at once like a wave. But it also forces you to reminisce about the good times. These past few months, it’s almost felt like my life has slowly flashed before my eyes through the lens of all the memories of my brother. I also keep thinking about the kind of person he was. Jon was a one-of-one.

4. Book Recommendation: A fellow pilot at the legacy airline where I work recently passed away suddenly and without warning. He was somewhat well known for being knowledgeable on finance and the path to financial independence. He wrote a book geared towards pilots, but that applies to any career and the ensuing financial decisions. Before he died he was finishing up the second edition and his wife just recently was able to publish it posthumously.  I’d appreciate if folks in this community would consider purchasing it to support his family, and who knows, you may gain some knowledge or perspective from the book.  Pilot Math Treasure Bath Second Edition

5. The Worst Retirement Ever: It doesn’t take long to discover that early retirement agrees with you.  Waking up without an alarm clock brings new meaning to the word luxury.  With extra free time, exercising and making healthy meals at home feels natural.  Riding a bicycle to the grocery store at 2 pm on a Wednesday is so much more enjoyable than the crazy after work rush, and it seems you can’t help but scratch items off your To Do list. A few months go by, and as the stress of life melts away you start to feel like a new person.  You finally feel ready to move on to bigger and better things One of those things is a quick review of the retirement plan With a 50+ year horizon, the portfolio is heavy on equities with 80% stock and 20% bonds, all invested in low-cost index funds.  At the beginning we keep one year’s worth of spending in cash to help smooth out the inevitable bumps in the road.  If there is a market crash early in retirement, we can move our bond position into stock and use the cash for spending It seems a good time to depend on a portfolio instead of a job.  The last few years, the economy has been quite robust.  Inflation is low and growth is strong, and people seem optimistic about the future. Our budgeted spending of $40,000 per year can provide for a high quality of life, more than we will probably spend (Although maybe we will spend that much someday.)  Because the early years are critical to a portfolio’s long term survival, the plan is to spend a little less than 4% while we get used to our new life. Is this plan sufficiently robust? I hope so.  We are about to retire in 1965, the worst year to retire Ever (All numbers are 2014 Dollars.  Using 1965 dollars, this fictitious retiree would have started with ~$135k and been spending ~$5.3k per year) The First 10 Years The first few years go by fairly smoothly.  Income from dividends and interest grows and our spending grows with it.  As during any time in history, bad things happen.  In 1968, Martin Luther King Jr. was shot.  Vietnam War protests increase in frequency and intensity, including the tragedy that took place at Kent State.  But good things happen as well.  In 1969, the whole nation watched as Neil Armstrong stepped foot on the Moon, and it seemed anything was possible But then President Nixon announces that the US Dollar can no longer be redeemed for gold, along with wage and price controls.  This is going to take some time for the world economy to sort out, and there is nothing worse for the economy than the unknown.  Even though our spending is still ramping up, we realize things will be turbulent for some time and are ready to make short term changes And then things get worse.  In 1973 the Arab Oil Embargo causes oil prices to quadruple virtually overnight, pushing prices up on nearly everything.  Price controls cause a shortage of gasoline, long lines, and fear. This hits the wallet a little, but not nearly as bad as it does for the people driving to work everyday. Worse than gas shortages and increasing prices is the plunging stock market.  In 1973, the stock market drops 19%.  In 1974, it drops another 25%.  While inflation is kicking you in the gut, the stock market punches you in the throat In what is one of the hardest financial decisions we ever make, we stick to the plan…  moving half of our bond position into stock during our annual asset reallocation in ’73, and the other half in ’74.  We go all in… 100% stocks.  When the world looks to be on the edge of collapse, we fight that clenching feeling in our gut and follow the plan. Touring all of the National Parks in an RV was part of the plan as well, but not with a gas shortage.  Instead we prioritize our budget friendly goals and spend the next two years hiking the Appalachian Trail and biking across the United States.  This helps drop our spending to about 2.5% of the initial portfolio value, less than we are earning in dividends 10 Years in daily life is quite enjoyable, but economically things are not looking good.  The stock market has crashed, there is no oil, the President Nixon has just resigned, inflation is out of control, and when adjusted for inflation our portfolio is worth only half of what it was when we started

6. Updated Trinity Study: I found this website going over withdrawal rates that is updated to 2023. The thing I liked was that they included a 50 year chart with inflation, confirming that 3.5% withdrawal is right where you want to be for a near 100% successive rate.  https://thepoorswiss.com/updated-trinity-study/#2-why-did-i-do-it-again  Credit and shout out to Baptiste Wicht

7. Withdrawal rates by expected years in retirement and portfolio size.: inally found a well researched answer to the above. Obviously flexibility in spending can increase this rates as well as only investing in the s&p500.  https://www.pwlcapital.com/fire-heres-why-the-4-spending-rule-does-not-apply-to-you/  Also for my Canadian friends check these calculators out! Fantastic!  Looniedoctor.ca  Thanks and persue your passions

8. 35 yo healthcare worker. retiring 1.65 million.: 80% of my net worth came from my investment gains. I got no inheritance from my parents. Remember that the most wealthiest people in the world have most of their net worth in stocks.. You need to invest money to get to where you want to be early. I dont think 1.65 million will run out forever. My expected yearly expense is less than 30k. And I won't let lifestyle creep be a thing. I dont have a car and won't get a car. 

9. Stop Asking for Permission to FIRE — You Already Did the Math: The goal of FIRE is simple: reach Financial Independence, then Retire Early whatever that means for you. Whether it’s baristaFIRE, leanFIRE, or fatFIRE, there’s a community for every flavor. The math is proven: 25× annual expenses. If you’ve hit that number, congratulations you’re FI. You don’t need the community to redo your math or grant you permission to RE. Nobody will search your soul for you.

10. You can't just 'go back to work' after you FIRE.: I see so many comments saying to just pull the trigger if you think you're probably safe. While you can absolutely cut expenses in down market, you can't get your old job back if its been more than a few years. When you FIRE, you're typically leaving at your peak earning potential. I'd also guess the majority of people here will be earning pretty good money at that time. 1 more year translates to another $XXX,XXX dollars today and years of it being invested and growing.

11. Don’t be discouraged by young people who seem to be doing way better than you. Most of us have had enormous advantages.: I’m 26, make $110k, and am about to cross $100k net worth. I’m not doing quite as well as some people on here, but I’m definitely the kind of person you might look at and think, “wow, she got it together early. I wish I’d been doing that well at that age.”  But here’s the story you don’t see behind those stats:  -My parents gave me their old car when I turned 16. And then when it broke down a year later (through no fault of my own), they bought me another car that I had through college.  -My parents paid for my entire college degree, including housing and food. I didn’t even have to pay for my books.  -My dad convinced me to start funding a Roth IRA when I was 20. I didn’t even know what an IRA was and just blindly did what he said. And because my parents were paying all my expenses, it was easy to max it out on the salary from my part time job.  -After I graduated college, I couldn’t get a good job in my field and decided to go back for a second degree. My grandma paid for tuition this time, and my parents let me live with them, so still no student debt.  -When I finally graduated college the second time with a full time job lined up, I was out of money and couldn’t afford the move I needed to do. So my parents just lent me $10k and told me to pay them back whenever. It’s been 1.5 years and I’ve only paid back $4k so far, which they’re fine with. Can you imagine if I’d needed to take out an actual line of credit to finance my move????? You should always measure your accomplishments relative to yourself, not some random person on here who’s your age but has double the net worth. Don’t let other people discourage you; we’re all on our own paths.

12. Who you marry is the #1 financial decision you can make.: I don’t know who needs to hear this. Forget about 401(k)s and IRAs or HYSA or Brokerage accounts. Who you marry is the single most important financial decision you can make with regard to your financial future. I don’t mean go marry somebody rich. I mean, marry somebody that shares your financial values, works hard and doesn’t spend tons of money. I know people who make several hundred thousand a year and are poor because they spend like crazy. I also know people where one spouse stays at home, but shares the financial values who have a huge nest egg and can retire early. Marry the right person.

13. Don’t tell your friends: Learn from my mistake.  I’ve read here that you shouldn’t tell friends and family. But, we had some really close friends and we always vent about work. Recently they asked how work was going and I let them know I’m going to retire at the end of the year. Of course I didn’t offer any numbers but I guess they can read between the lines.  After that it was like a light switch. We were on a vacation with a small friend group ( including them ) and they started making snide comments and treating us very differently. Usually we text all the time but it’s been radio silence for a month. We even asked if everything is ok and texted them.  I should have told them I was in trouble and will have to start consulting. On the flip side I guess maybe we weren’t as close as i thought.

14. Make sure to show your spouse how much their income helps the team if there's a large difference in income: My wife and I do not have children yet, we both work. About 2 months ago she mentioned how she likes working but feels like it's almost volunteer work because of how big of a difference our incomes are. "does my income help us at all?"  Let's just say I make 400k and she makes 100k for round numbers. The discrepancy is actually bigger.  I showed her a lot of our expenses come from the 400k, so we can invest 80k of my income. By her working, it does not just boost our savings rate up by 25%, it's basically double because we can save her whole income.  Told her that it makes a HUGE difference in our financial independence, and showed her how working a year now (and saving it all) pays for years of her not working at all.  I also showed her how the max I can save in 401k without her is lower due to limits. She's able to sock away an additional $45-55k into tax deferred 401k.  She was very happy that she's contributing, and I think it made her more excited about going to work each day.  At some point we will purchase the freedom and make her a stay at home mom, but until then I sure appreciate her going to work.

15. It doesn’t matter how much you save if you die at 50: This isn’t an anti FIRE post this is a pro health post. Eat your whole and healthy foods, go to the gym, run, and sleep well. You can’t outwork a bad lifestyle that will have you in a early grave. That is all.

16. A Tax Book Everyone Should Read: https://www.amazon.com/More-Wealth-Less-Taxes-Time-Tested/dp/1631958526"More Wealth, Less Taxes"I am not the author, so hopefully this doesn't violate the sub rulesI recommend this book to literally everyone I meet. If you want to succeed in the US and not get shafted by Uncle Sam at every turn, please read. It is a slew of useful information packed into a very short book covering taxes, retirement, types of accounts, and so forth. It will help immensely in your FIRE journey as it teaches you how to legally navigate the tax system to pay the least amount possible. Enjoy.

17. Budget maps like EPI: Hey all, looking for a budget map akin to data from the EPI’s family budget calc and map found here https://www.epi.org/resources/budget/.  Looking for something with more updated data or filtered to be applied, but I can’t really find anything thorough like it. I get that it’s a huge dataset, but if anyone has anything similar that they use and deem accurate, I’d love a link

18. Stanley and Danko interviewed more than 500 millionaires and wrote a book, here’s a summary of how they got rich: Back in 1973, Stanley and Danko worked for a company that wanted demographic data on the millionaires of America. As the two sent out their 200 question surveys (getting at times 1000 respondents) and conducted interviews (over 500 individual), they started noticing common patterns and practices among millionaires. The Millionaire Next Door is the summation of all the things they learned about millionaires that would benefit non-millionaires and help them get their finances in order. These are the more interesting millionaire practices I got out of the book: Millionaires who drive used cars are happier than millionaires who drive lambos, The wife is more frugal , Expensive purchases come in sets, The key is low living expenses paired with high income, Millionaires invest in what they know, and they stay invested for years, Economic out patient care

19. Is the market actually efficient? Should we give up on alpha and just buy index funds? My main takeaways from A Random Walk Down Wall Street: A Random Walk Down Wall Street by Burton Malkiel is known as a generally good starting point for people who are new to personal finance. It also, as it happens, had been recommended to me by a fellow redditor as an overall correct but not too dense book that will be of actual help to personal finance newbies that does more than regurgitate financial common sense. Even so, when I went into this book I really just expected it to rehash things I already read in other books but perhaps more thoroughly. I wasn't entirely wrong, a lot of information had in fact been repeated, but I also wasn't entirely right. Malkiel actually has something of a unique perspective when it comes to money management so I figure it's worth sharing some of what he has to say: Before you are able to take advantage of market inefficiencies, you must know the ways that the market is actually efficient, The stock market is highly efficient in the short term..., But it is often inefficient in the long term, Retail investors have several massive advantages over professional fund managers so don't get too discouraged when you hear that most professional investors don't beat the market Overall I found A Random Walk to be a helpful and interesting read. The book is somewhat long (the edition I read is 456 pages) so I've left quite a bit of it out due to necessity. If you guys have anything to add, definitely feel free.

20. 100 Millionaires Interviewed - Insights into the Financial Behavior of Millionaires: Financial blogger John has interviewed a total of 100 millionaires for his website. Here are his learnings:  1) Millionaires have high income.  No surprise there. The majority of millionaires have a higher annual income than the average. But here's the catch: they possess a keen sense of where to invest their time and energy strategically, which eventually leads to financial success. Being born with a silver spoon in their mouth? Far from it. In reality, most millionaires began their financial journey with a very humble income.  2) Work-Life Balance is a challenge.  If you want to earn a lot, you have to work a lot too. Especially in the beginning, most millionaires have invested a significant amount of time in building their careers. This requires not only a strong determination but also a partner who is supportive and committed. However, over the years, many of them have scaled back their workload to a manageable level, especially when they have their own children.  3) Millionaires have more than one source of income.  Approximately 62% of the millionaires surveyed by John had at least one additional source of income. The classic approach is investing the money earned from their "main job" in various real estate properties. Most millionaires, therefore, develop multiple income streams, connecting them together to exponentially grow their wealth.  4) Millionaires save a significant portion.  If you want to have more money, you cannot rely solely on your income; you must also save. The surveyed millionaires spend an average of $90,000 per year while earning $250,000 per year. Almost all millionaires, therefore, save the majority of their income. Consequently, even the smallest savings balance can grow over time and contribute to increasing their net worth.  5) Many millionaires do not have a budget.  In fact, 46% had no budget, meaning they didn't have a fixed limit on their expenses. Upon closer examination, this surprising response makes sense. Most millionaires experience that they do not increase their spending proportionally even as their income grows. While a budget can be beneficial in the early stages of a career, it is not necessarily essential for later success.  6) Traveling is their favorite pastime.  What do millionaires treat themselves to? Luxury cars and jewelry? Certainly, those too – but their ultimate pastime remains traveling. From this comes a crucial insight: The road to wealth isn't solely about saving. Most millionaires also carve out room for fun and fully embrace the rewards of their hard work.  7) Simple and affordable investments are essential.  Despite the allure of a vast array of investment ideas and strategies, most millionaires opt for low-cost stock index funds. During the interviews, many expressed, "I am no genius, cannot predict the future, and find no pleasure in market tracking." Consequently, stock index funds frequently serve as a pivotal element in building a multi-million dollar wealth.  8) Portfolios are reviewed daily.  About half of the surveyed millionaires review their portfolios at least once a day. Although this behavior can lead to hasty decisions that may later prove to be disadvantageous, it seems to work well for millionaires. John attributes this to the high level of self-discipline that millionaires possess, as observed in his study.  9) Focusing only on the essentials.  In the interviews, there were only a few millionaires who attributed their wealth to fortunate happenstance. Most of them simply focused on the essentials: earning well, saving significantly, and making sound financial decisions. While this may sound unglamorous and almost old-fashioned, it remains highly effective in the long run.  10) If it's not broken, don't fix it.  During the interviews, John was eager to uncover the biggest secrets responsible for the millionaires' wealth. However, no one revealed any groundbreaking secrets because there were none. They simply said, "We do the same things as always." Many millionaires have become and remained wealthy by not altering a successful course unless absolutely necessary.  11) Everyone makes mistakes.  Nobody is perfect, and that's not a requirement for success either. Almost every millionaire had to overcome obstacles and pitfalls on their way to their first million. The crucial point is that none of them made a financial mistake that dealt a fatal blow. Therefore, if you want to increase your income in the long run, you can afford some missteps, but you should never put everything on one card. This way, you can continually reassess and reposition yourself.

21. Statistics: The average millionaire is 57 years old. The top careers include engineering, accounting and law.: Interesting statistics: The average millionaire is 57 years old. This is due to the fact that it takes smart financial decisions, hard work, and wise investments to become a millionaire, most of which don’t fully pay off until around the age of 50 or 60.  The five careers most commonly held by millionaires, according to one survey, include engineering, accounting (CPA), and law. Managers and teachers were the other two careers most represented in this surveyed group of millionaires.  The finance and investments industry produces the highest number of millionaires. This industry has 371 billionaires that work within it, not to mention millionaires. The top five industries for producing millionaires are:  Finance and Investments Technology Manufacturing Fashion and Retail Healthcare The food and beverage and real estate industries follow at numbers six and seven, respectively.  Source: Zippia

22. Before You Form Your LLC, Read This: TL;DR Forming an LLC is popular advice — but it’s not always the right move for every business. Different structures come with different legal and tax implications. 

23. What's the most powerfully useful underground website that most people don't know about?: My favorites:  Gutenberg.org - 70k free ebooks StopOverpaying.org - saved me a stupid amount of money ($1,300 last year). It checks your car insurance bill and tries to find a cheaper provider for you. Remove.bg - a free background remover for images. Khan Academy - free lessons for basically everything (quality is actually amazing). Libbyapp.com - borrow ebooks + audiobooks free with your library card. Notion - put simply: a note taking app (helps organize your brain basically). Pluto.tv - Free movies + TV. Yes, ads. But sometimes gems.

24. I created a "CoastFire Calculator & Decision Tool", after feeling frustrated that existing tools didn't help me make smart decisions on my retirement plan. Hope it can help you too!: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1oeKDDh5i0R44q-2uCSyGCpqHDIvsUDAHHSRe7iKWc8Q/edit?usp=sharingHi all! The title says it all. I've been on the "Coast Fire" track for a few years now and feel like I'm always equivocating between different savings targets. Most calculators I've seen are a bit of a black box that spit out a savings target for a given retirement plan, but don't help much in deciding what your Coast Fire plan should be.I created this tool to make it easy to visualize how (1) different retirement ages, monthly contribution amounts and yearly expenditures in retirement impact your (2) Coast Fire savings target and Coast Fire starting age. I've also tried to make it transparent how everything is calculated and what role inflation, growth rate and withdrawal rate impact your retirement plan.Please let me know if you have any feedback on the tool or the formulas I used. I'm far from being a financial professional, but I'm happy with what I created and thought it might help people in a similar boat as me. Please take my methodology with a grain of salt if you want to replicate for your own retirement plans! ;

25. Hi Everyone!: On my way to the FIRE I created this app to help me monitoring my net worth and how my investments are performing. It's FREE (and in beta) but I can't stop using it already. Have a look! Currencies are only $/€ and conversion is in the task list with more currencies.. more features to come! I read some 3d where people were looking for something like this so I decided to make a post.Any suggestion are welcome here on reddit, what do you think is missing?  Cheers!  https://wealthtracker.dev/

26. Great website to find cheap recipes: www.budgetbytes.com  Each recipe has a price per serving and nutrition info. They have meal prep recipes as well.

27. Inspiration! How to Live off 10k a year.: Loved this older post on this blog, and wondered what everyone thinks about this budget? How to Live off 10k a year  Edit: For those living in the US, I think this one may also be interesting: https://apurplelife.com/2021/12/30/how-i-spent-20415-in-2021/

28. Tips for those going to college or Going back to save money!: I know this might not be specifically on topic but I hope it is accepted for those trying to improve their job outlook to retire faster. I just wanted to inform people about a few options to help them speed-run college that they might not be aware of.  CLEPS - CLEPS are a great way to speed through some of the easier courses or courses that you know that you can pass. They cost about $110 in my area (usually $80 for the test and $30 for testing fees).  The quick explanation of it is that you can take a test for a college class and if you pass, you get the credit for the class. They take about 2 hours and if you are a good studier or test taker, they can really speed you through a large chunk of credits.  You have to check and see how many transfer credits your school allows but typically it is a good amount.  2. Sophia.org  Similar to cleps but they are self-paced mini-courses. The ones I have taken have been super-easy to pass and the cost is definitely worth it. Costs $70 a month but you can take as many of the classes as you want.  They are set up into modules where you can to answer a handful of questions (not many) and then take an open book quiz at the end of each module. Once you finish all the modules you take a final and if you pass you get the credit for the class. I think that each one I have taken has taken me around 6-12 hour total to complete.  100% worth it and you may want to consider looking into it before CLEPs. Especially if you are bad at test taking  3. DSSTs/Dantes  These are much like CLEPs but higher level credits. They are much more difficult than CLEPs but are still very doable if you push yourself. I believe they also cost more but it has been a while since I've taken a test for them. A great resource for sure but one that you'll have to prepare for.  4. Job Credit  I know that you can receive credit for work that you've performed already but unfortunately I don't have any experience with this. The best I can recommend is to talk to an advisor.  College is achievable! I just hope that these resources help you speed run it so you can make as much money as you need to retire early!

29. Free Wealth & Investment Tracker: If, like us, you're tired of maintaining complicated spreadsheets to track all your assets, liabilities, currencies, prices... Check out this free app that we are building: www.exirio.com. We'd love to have your feedback and make it as useful as possible for the community in their path towards financial freedom.

30. PSA: Social Security pays more than you think, especially for high earners: I graduated college in 2008, only hit the SS max wage in 2014 ($117k) and have only earned the max wage for the subsequent 12 years. If I retired today at age 40 I would be entitled to $45k in SS at age 70. Times two people (spouse has similar earning history) is $90k in income at age 70, that’s basically all of our non-discretionary spend.

31. I've been a homeowner for 5 years. These are the biggest things I wish somebody told me on day one.:  Stop getting price-gouged when you shop online, Your home equity is a gold-mine. If you need funds, stop taking out high-interest loans., Switch auto insurance companies every 6-12 months., Get yourself a dang advisor., Save on home insurance.

32. PSA: Don't forget about 401k's from old jobs, even if you're "sure" you don't have one: I left my last job 15 years ago, and always kicked myself for not getting a 401k set up as early as possible, contributing as much as I could, etc. Especially considering I was there through the bottom of market during the GFC. What a time to have bought in! Oh well—life in retrospect.  Or so I thought.  After several address changes between then and now some mail caught up with me, trying to get updated contact information. I was admittedly a bit confused and suspicious; I was sure I never got around to setting up a savings plan there. Or did I?  God bless whoever at HR must have made a point of it when I onboarded and I just totally forgot about it. $100k sitting there!  In the event I'm not the only dingdong who has completely forgotten about an old savings plan - it's worth double checking!

33. Why you need less to FIRE than what you think: When I was in accumlating phase, I made about $200k and thought i needed $5m to RE based on the 4% rule. I really didnt think much beyond that as i was so far off, and it was about saving as much as i could and investing.  Now that I am getting close to my RE target age, I redid my calcs and calculated that I have been spending about $7, $8k with health insurance included (more like $7.5k with aca subsidies included but that's another story)  So my RE number is really $2.25m on $7.5k spend. Once i add in future SS that's coming in about 13 years, that number drops to about $2m.  This really depends on where you are in the FIRE journey, when you're accumlating, say in your 30's, you're just focused on hitting the number, and that number is usually based on what you're making as a shorthand (this is for the average fire aspiratant.) But once I got close and dug into the details, that $5m i thought i needed when i was accumulating, really became $2m. Some already will know this already, but some may not, especially if they are in the early innings of accumulation.

34. Waiting too long to spend your retirement is a bigger risk than running out of money: is the name of a new Apple News Plus article talking about how overly conservative traditional retirees are and how they end up dying with more than they anticipated, so they could've spent more for a while, and I was thinking that apple news plus article doesn't KNOW what conservative is if they haven't been on this sub. But thinking about how same thing applies here and how careful we are to not have to lower our monthly spending in 99.999% of scenarios, instead of retiring a couple years earlier and only being covered for 90% of scenarios.

35. I made an app to follow your profits you are welcome to use it for free: Hello!  I created this app for personal use and to reduce the amount of spreadsheets I use to track my financial sources.  You can use your Gmail account to save your information.  https://www.gofire.app  Among other features you can:  I. Create a Goal and track how close you are to achieving it.  II. Add financial sources, change their order, edit them and add the real value of your assets.  III. Add in the savings you invest and see the returns.

36. Heads-Up to US Veterans - Health Care Eligibility Expanded: I was just setting up my online VA account, and saw that VA health coverage was greatly expanded in early 2024 due to the PACT Act.  I wasn't eligible before, but I am now. So this could be a big help to veterans in the event ACA goes away. I hadn't heard about this, so I wanted to share.  You’re eligible to enroll now—without needing to apply for disability benefits first—if you meet the basic service and discharge requirements and any of these descriptions are true for you. You served on or after September 11, 2001, in any of these locations: Afghanistan Djibouti Egypt Jordan Lebanon Syria Uzbekistan Yemen Any other country determined relevant by VA (none at this time) The airspace above any of these locations You served on or after August 2, 1990, in any of these locations: Bahrain Iraq Kuwait Oman Qatar Saudi Arabia Somalia The United Arab Emirates (UAE) The airspace above any of these locations You deployed in support of any of these operations: Operation Enduring Freedom Operation Freedom’s Sentinel Operation Iraqi Freedom Operation New Dawn Operation Inherent Resolve Resolute Support Mission

37. this book revealed so many ways I was wrong about money and the stock market and I wanted to share: So my last book review post thing seems to have done fairly well so I thought I might as well put up some of the other book reviews I've written. The Psychology of Money by Morgan Housel is another one of those highly recommended personal finance books that everyone seemed to recommend and I found it really revealing. Like, I never noticed that I was subconsciously equating "money someone has" with "expensive stuff someone has" until Housel pointed it out. Anyway, these are my main takeaways from the book. How the stock market behaved during our teen and young adult years will form the basis of our attitude towards the stock market for the rest of our lives, The most successful people are also the most lucky but we don't talk about luck because it makes for a bad story., If you spend money on things, then you'll have things, not money. How expensive someone's house or car is tells you nothing about how much they have in their bank account, You don't need a reason to save money, it's just a good habit to have., Being reasonable is better than being rational, Some people in the stock market have different goals than you and you shouldn't let the effect of their trading impact your investing decisions, Pessimism is inherently more convincing than optimism because paying attention to danger was better of our ancestors' survival than appreciating good fortune.

38. How to Retire Without Money! by Bob Belmont (How one writer suggested doing it ~65 years ago): A good friend of mine has this book on her bookshelf, and I thought it might be of interest to some in this group. She is 94 and bought it in 1958 when she was 30. While the details have changed, some of the guiding principles remain very much the same. There is some interesting info about Bob Belmont (aka Dallas McCord "Mack" Reynolds) and a few highlights from the book in a 2017 article in Next Avenue (https://www.nextavenue.org/retire-without-money/): “The Book's 5 Key Points to Retire Frugally and Happily: 1. Where you retire makes a big financial difference; 2. Saving can be satisfying; 3. Debt is a drag; 4. Busy beats idle; 5. Tomorrow might be too late.”

39. Use the compound effect to improve your life (not just your finances): Use the compound effect to improve your life (not just your finances)  We are all familiar with the benefits of compound effect on investments... this article looks at how to apply it to real life (your non financial goals, relationships ...)  https://medium.com/@adam.aya/how-to-use-the-compound-effect-to-improve-your-life-cf4ff09df8f5  Summary:  Just like with our investments, we can use the compound effect to get us closer to our goals in life split large goals into smaller targets... similar to what we do to get our NW to where we can retire each decision we make gets us closer or away from our goals. Compounding those good” decisions get us closer to goals faster.

40. Keeping this in perspective - only .8% of US families have $3M in retirement: Some might think from reading this group that everyone has at least $1M, some have $2M, and quite a few $3M. But the actual statistics are that 95% of families fall short of ever achieving $1M. This group is FIRE focused and, by definition, a very atypical sample.

41. PSA: This is the internet and people lie: I don’t come on here often but the last few days I saw posts of people in their 20s and 30s claiming a million + net worth then when you go to their profile their history doesn’t line up with their story at all. I’ve found 3 of these just over the weekend. Just a friendly reminder that you shouldn’t measure your progress by other people’s stats, especially when they aren’t verifiable and people lie all the time.




