1. Last day of work today!: I walked out of work with my box of cubicle* decorations with a smile on my face today. This was the last real day of work. The next three days are out processing and Friday is the ceremony and party. 43F, pension as soon as I step out the door, house paid off, kids' college funding secured, low cost health insurance secured, a nice net worth, and years of life ahead of me. Not to bad for where I started.

2. Boom! The company my amazing wife works for sold and we are now very ChubbyFIRE. We are about to take the vacation of a lifetime and call it quits on work. She is making more in a single transaction than all my years of saving combined.: FREEEEEEEDOM right around the corner! Literally the last couple days of last year, as part of the purchasing company’s EOY goal, contracts were signed and cuts were check. My wife will receive nearly $5M. This is about double of what they were originally planned to be worth. Shout out to her for 10 long years at a start up, her amazing boss, and tech bubbly valuations. Taxes will be a stupid painful bitch but our savings is solid already at a little over $3M.

3. Just paid off the house today. You are the only ones I can tell.: So my wife and I got a windfall and decided to spend half of it paying off our 1.5 year old mortgage which had 7% interest. I just got the payoff confirmation email today and it was very satisfying but it was weird because I literally cannot talk to anyone about it besides my wife. I know it makes more fiscal sense to invest but the way current events are playing out, owning the home felt safer. Paying it off reduced our FI number by 500K and we are now officially in lean fire territory after we invest the other half of the money.

4. I might be joining the club: Both 50, have a kid going to college next year. 529 is fully funded.  Current expense is 2.2% (liquid ) net worth. We are golden. Room to increase expense . Once wife pension and my SS kicks in later years , the draw will be naturally lower.  I was planning to stay to 55 . Wife is retiring in a year ( based on my encouragement). Now I might be joining the club sooner than expected . I can see the writing on the wall at work . I’m actually ok with it and happy someone made the call for me.  Virtual toast to the folks here. Will be joining the gang soon!

5. I’m not you-but you have helped so much: I am 10 years from traditional retirement and I just crossed over $600,000 in my own 403(b). House will be paid off in 3 years and the kids are through college with no debt. My husband and I have NW of over 1.5M.  Due to life-I won’t FIRE, but the mindset and information and encouragement on this forum has been eye-opening. Thank you all so much for helping me like I have agency and options! I have so much more knowledge than before.

6. The $0 Paycheck Milestone: Alternate title, “Why you may consider public employment.”  I recently hit a milestone that I don’t have anyone to share with.  35 year old mechanical engineer Married to a self-employed architect. 1 child Midwest  We recently paid off our mortgage which leaves us with 0 debt. No auto loans, credit card balances, etc.  My wife started her own business 5 years ago and at the same time I took a step back in my career for more work life balance when my daughter was born.  My employer has a ton of pre-tax benefits that most of my coworkers disregard. Now that we are mortgage free, we can live entirely off my wife’s income, that comes to her through a small salary and s-corp distributions that do not get FICA taxed.  This is now allowing us to max out all my benefits for the rest of the year:  Weekly Salary: $2,327 Taxes: $135 401k/457: $1,557 Defined Contribution Plan: $137 HDHP/Vision/Dental: $136 Dependent Care FSA: $144 HSA: $168 Vacation Purchase: $42 Life insurance: 7  Paycheck: $0  For those considering early retirement, these benefits allow for a huge savings rate.  At the end of the year, we look at my wife’s business profits and convert traditional to Roth IRA to use up our 12% tax bracket.  For those in the community, your state and local governments can be great strategy for FIRE. I am able to start maxing both the 401k and 457 without our mortgage payments. Starting in January, I will be back up to a $550/week paycheck which I’ll save into 529 and brokerage accounts.

7. Just had my first 3-day week and it feels surreal: As I shared before, I reached my FIRE number at the beginning of the year. I was thinking of quitting after my last set of shares vested in May, but I just couldn't imagine what I'd do 5 days a week. So instead I talked to my manager and requested a 3-day week (Tuesday to Thursday) for 12 months saying that I just want to focus more on other aspects of my life.  To my surprise both my manager and the director approved the request very quickly and I just finished my first short week. It feels strange that I won't need to turn on my laptop until Tuesday morning. Now I just need to figure out how to spend my long weekends going from Friday till Monday. It will probably take a month or two to find the pattern, but I hope this transition year will help me discover how I want to spend my time when I switch to permanent FIRE.

8. No more Sunday Scaries!: -I, M47, worked my last day this past Friday after giving notice 8 weeks prior to the company I had worked the last 26 years for. I was completely burnt out and just couldn't keep grinding. This is the first Sunday I have had that hasn't been full of dread knowing I had another work week to wake up to tomorrow in years. It is a weird, wild and wonderful feeling.  -Details for those interested: *Age 47, single, no kids, MCOL *$3.1M NW not including my home - split nearly 50/50 between 401K and assets I can access easily right now (HYSA, Individual Brokerage) *Just $55K left on home at 1.99% *monthly spend = $5500 including the mortgage. Will drop to $4500 after 5 years. AMA - I guess? I've got plenty of time to respond now. 

9. I’m a millionaire: We did it fam. This week our net worth crossed over $1 million for the first time. I’m sure it will fluctuate but for now we’re going to celebrate hitting that milestone.  The last couple of months in the market have been an incredible run for us. I’m not doing anything fancy; mostly just invested in VOO and other S&P 500 funds. I have been investing since 2012 and this has been the one of the wildest rebounds and net worth swings. During the Covid dip, I remember our investments dropping by around 30% or so and loading the boat at the bottom, which made us a good amount of money. But back then I only had $100k or so, and the effect of compounding has been huge since then. What did you do to celebrate your first million?  We are thinking of setting aside a few thousand dollars to take a family vacation next year. I thought about what kind of luxury purchase I might want to make to mark a milestone, and there’s a whole lot I actually want. I’m pretty content with what we have and may just make a few small fun purchases going forward. Send my wife on a spa day more often, buy more Legos, etc.

10. Just hit $300k NW, turning 26 in a couple weeks: Title. I don't talk finance details with people irl, so didn't have anyone to share this with. Hitting a round number is cool I guess, but I know I have a ways to go.  Breakdown:  Checking: $12k HYSA: $95k 401k: $170k Roth IRA: $15k HSA: $10k Been working for almost 6 years. Just got promoted to $165k salary, started at $107k.  Until last year I was heavily focused on paying off ~$60k in student loan debt. Now I'm debt free, so I've pivoted hard into saving.  Also, I know I'm carrying a lot of cash - things have been unstable at work atm and there's moderate risk of layoffs, I've also got some upcoming medical expenses, so yeah. If/when things stabilize I plan on throwing the extra in a brokerage.  Honestly I don't even have a clear goal, I feel like I'm just saving and will figure it out later. I live alone in HCOL (and I'm happy like that) so my expenses are probably too high to go for full FIRE anyways. I'm also lowkey burnt out and recently discovered I love solo travel, so I dunno what I really want going forward.

11. Reached £1M liquid net worth and reflecting a bit: I recently crossed £1 million in liquid net worth (about $1.34 million), excluding pension assets, and wanted to share here, partly because I find posts like this helpful, and partly because I don’t really have anyone in real life I feel comfortable talking to about it.  I’m around 40, male, single, no kids, from a pretty normal middle-class background. Nothing especially privileged, nothing especially deprived.  The reason this milestone means a lot to me is that my path here was pretty bumpy. My teens and early 20s were heavily shaped by serious mental health problems, including OCD, depression and an eating disorder, and a bit later was diagnosed with autism. There were a lot of hospital admissions, setbacks, and periods of fairly intensive treatment, and for a while a normal adult life felt like it would be impossible. University and a career both seemed unrealistic.  Things improved slowly rather than dramatically. I eventually made it to university later than planned, graduated in my mid/late 20s, and started working in a well-paid career in finance, where I’ve stayed since.

12. Year 2 Progress: I joined the r/Fire community about 2 years ago after I started my first full time job out of college. There has been many changes (good and bad) since then and today marked a historical moment for me personally.  For context, I live in a VHCOL city and started off with a base salary of $80k before getting a promotion a year into work. Now my base pay sits just above $90k (before I’m forced to donate a huge chunk of my paycheck to the IRS and city/state)  6 months in: ~$18k net worth - I started aggressively saving ~40-60% of my paycheck each month  1 year in: ~$40k net worth - Still saved aggressively but lowered my 401(k) contributions from 29% to 15% so I could have some money to enjoy life as a 25yo  Present day (~2 years in): ~$102k net worth!!  Couldn’t believe it when I opened my eyes today to see my net worth finally reach the $100k mark. Many more years left before I retire but let’s keep this ball rolling!

13. Hit our household FI number today: Can’t tell anyone except my spouse and you internet strangers. We hit $3.5m U.S. across our investment accounts today. Now every bit of growth is just padding until I decide/ work up the courage to do the RE part.  Cheers!

14. My 30M NurseFIRE: Hey everyone, wanted to share a bit of a weird pivot I'm making. It’s probably less of a traditional FIRE and more of a total career change, but let’s call it NurseFIRE.  30M (no kids and don't want them) $2.5M NW ($1M in 401k/IRA/529, $1.5M in taxable brokerage) $0 Debt $90K Annual Spend  //  Back in college, I originally started out in Chemistry and wanted to go into medicine, but I realized I couldn't afford the debt and needed to make money right away. Even though I wasn't naturally amazing at Computer Science, I ground through the classes, switched majors, and landed a job in Big Tech post-grad.  Through a massive amount of right-place-right-time luck and landing on the right projects, I eventually climbed the career ladder to a total compensation of ~$1.2M. But the last few years have been brutal. Between the pressure at my seniority level and the constant tech layoffs, my mental bandwidth was completely wiped out. I had absolutely no energy left for a life outside of work and knew I needed an exit strategy. Mentally, walking away from that kind of money is terrifying. It definitely feels like I'm resetting to square zero. To a lot of people (especially my parents!!), leaving a seven figure tech career to start over in healthcare sounds completely ludicrous. I had cold feet and guilt for a long time because I know people would literally kill to be in the position I'm abandoning. But I finally feel confident that this is what I want. I'd rather have actual work-life balance than suffer through the 996 tech grind just to return shareholder value.

15. 2M 36y: The recent stock market run lifted my NW over 2M. Living in a HCOL area, I actually wonder what’s the risk to take a step back at work. Slowly getting tired of office politics, the stress and grind that comes with it - doing the corporate job for the past decade and managed to safe aggressively. About ~10% in cash, the rest is invested in broad market ETFs. No magic. Half of it is in a taxable brokerage and half of it in retirement accounts. No debt.  Wife is working and brings in 180k and has an additional 500k NW, we do eventually want kids soon. We live in a rental and I’m unsure how much risk I can take but also do not want to constantly move the goal post. Some realistic advice on how to transition into FIRE would be awesome.

16. 19M achieved my first $100k!: I want to start by saying I’m not trying to flex or brag. I learned about FIRE during Covid-19 and I have been a lurker to r/fire since. Financial goals are weird because they are big milestones but typically not ones you share with your friends and family.  I hit 100k across my investment accounts today. I’m very lucky to have a dad who exposed me to investing at a young age. I worked throughout high school at the local pool and a few other gigs. Just about every $ I made I put into the markets.  Just wanted to share with a group of strangers on the internet and thank you all for sharing your thoughts and opinions on personal finance. I’ve learned a lot over the years reading through conversations of people a lot more knowledgeable than me. Thanks FIRE!

17. Investments hit $3m today. On the path since 2008.: Looking back at the numbers it took 12 years to hit $1m, 4 years to hit $2m and 2 years to hit $3m.  Almost all of this is in 401k or rollover 401k.  Maxed contributions from early on.  Both wife and I got higher paying jobs about 4 years out of college (around 2012) so that enabled us to pay off student loans, pay off cars, take vacations, all while maxing out the 401k’s.  Had a couple kids along the way.  We are pretty much at FIRE numbers now depending on how we want to manage discretionary expenses.  Anyways, as it goes with other people who post on here, just sharing here since no one else to share it with in the real world.

18. FI and fire'd so RE?  This is a bit of a celebratory post. Around a week ago, I hit my FI number. (Thank you stock market.) And then a day after, I was notified that I was made “redundant”. I’ve some pretty mixed feelings about this but I guess it’s a good way to avoid “just another year” syndrome.  Now I’m struggling a bit with my identity even though I have a lot of hobbies outside of work. It’s odd to not have a corporate job and be able to say “I’m xyz”. Now I’m like - I’m a homemaker? SAHM? Professional bum? And instead of thinking I’m making time for myself when I go exercise I’m feeling - well I’ve got nothing else better to do anyway.  It’s a very odd feeling. I wonder when it will go away.

19. Just crossed 1.5 million. 34 M. Recently single. Immigrant.: Hey guys. Here to share a milestone. Longtime lurker. Made some posts using older account I have no access to. Thank you so much to the Reddit PF community. I started in 2018 with r personalfinance and with bogleheads.  About 1.2 ish is in investments. Of which over 650k in post tax brokerages. 401k over 350k. Roth IRA over 120k. HSA 25k ish. 50k cash savings.  Home worth 800k but 450k mortgage remaining. House hacking with college mates since American Dream didn’t work out and girl left within a month of home purchase. Will probably sell next year at the 2 year mark.  Mostly VTSAX across all accounts. 80k in Robinhood doing individual stocks (included in post tax brokerage number above). More time passes, more the S&P 500 beats my personal fund.. haha.  Followed the Simple Path to Wealth. Collins and Bogle are my heroes. No QQQ and semi conductors or AI or leveraged products.  Income was modest when I started in 2018. Last 2-3 years very high over 300k.

20. From $45k to $1M Net Worth Before 30: Just crossed $1M net worth before 30. Immigrant story + career progression + lessons learned  I honestly still can’t believe I’m typing this.  A little over 6 years ago, I graduated university with a degree in electrical and computer engineering and started my first job making $45k/year in late 2019.  Today, at 29, my wife and I just crossed $1M net worth.  I know posts like this can sometimes feel out of touch, especially in today’s economy, so I want to say upfront: I know there was a lot of luck, timing, privilege, and opportunity involved here. This isn’t some “just work hard and anyone can do it” story.  I’m just grateful. For context, here’s what my yearly income progression looked like:  2019: ~$45k starting salary 2020: ~$72k total income 2021: ~$86k 2022: ~$208k 2023: ~$290k 2024: ~$350k 2025: ~$605k  A lot of the jump in later years came from RSUs, promotions, and switching companies strategically. 2025 was definitely an outlier/peak year and I don’t necessarily expect that trajectory forever, especially with how volatile tech has become lately. I genuinely think my life changes dramatically if I stay comfortable at that $70k job because it felt “safe enough.”  Keep learning. Keep applying. Keep interviewing. Keep betting on yourself.  And also: don’t forget to enjoy your life while you’re building it.

21. Aimed to hit $1MM before turning 30, just did it with a few days to spare: Just another celebratory post since the market is up. If I go buy dinner tonight I won’t be over the million mark anymore lol  I started working full time at a tech company 7 years ago. I did the math then and worked out id have a million in assets by my 30th birthday. Well I just crossed that milestone with less than a week to go. Don’t really want to tell anyone in my personal life, so I figured I’d share here since I’ve gotten a ton of advice here over the years.  As far as my background, I’ve worked for a tech start up since graduation college that’s became very successful after IPO, so a lot of my gains were from RSUs I received as I started working here right before the IPO.  My total comp has ranged from $100k/yr on the low end to $299k at the highest. Outside of my company stock, I pretty much just DCA into $VTI and chill. I bought a decent amount of bitcoin a few years back that’s done well, but I don’t really pay it any mind.  I don’t own any real estate, don’t have any debt, and am not married nor do I have kids.  I just wanted to write this post to say thanks to all those in this community who’ve given great advice over the years. Hoping that the next million will come much sooner!

22. Hit 200k at 25 today: 401k - 90k  Brokerage - 110k  Some things about me-  My journey began when I inherited 40k in 2021. I used 12k to buy a vehicle and haven't had a car loan since. So I was left with 28k invested to start.  In 2021 I was working at an entry level manufacturing position making 17 an hour. I left there after a year to go to another company and after four years now make ~100k a year or 32/hr + Overtime in another manufacturing position. I put 24% in my 401k as of the past couple years but was previously dumping extra cash into my Brokerage. I shifted it to my 401k to prevent lifestyle creep.  I own my own home in western MA. Purchased a 3 bedroom for 260k in 2024. My home equity isn't factored into this, but I think even having put 0% down at closing I might have 20k in home equity.  My partner and I have one child.  My 401k is all VINIX, my Brokerage has a mix of VUG, MSFT, RKLB, GOOG, META, AMZN, WMT and COF.

23. Hit $1M: 39/F, hit $1M today, wanted to post here because I didn’t really have anyone I felt comfortable sharing it with, but had a glass of wine tonight to celebrate!

24. On track to FIRE in 18 years!: Today, I put my numbers into Google AI just to gauge where I’m at and what I need to change, etc. I’m 27F with $72,000 invested.  Assuming the annualized returns are consistent (I know they won’t be, realistically, but I made the assumption for simplicity of the calculations), if I keep my same savings rate for 4 years (when I’m 31), I will hit CoastFI for retiring at 65, and if I keep my same savings rate for 18 years, I will be able to fully FIRE at 45!  Regardless of what the numbers say, I’m still going to push for raises and look for ways to increase my savings without sacrificing quality of life … but this just makes me feel good that if shit hits the fan down the road, I’m already in a great place and will be able to get through it :)  I do still plan to BaristaFI at 45 for insurance, and use my job income as travel money.

25. Investment up 500k: Just realized we hit a milestone.  We have been investing over the past 11 years, and just this month, we noticed our total investments made a paper gain of 500k.  No idea how long this will last, since the stock market has been on a crazy bull run, but am grateful.  We've made some good and bad investments during the years. Good ones include buying oil stocks during COVID that increased 900% (unfortunately we didn't have much money then so the absolute gains weren't too impressive).  Now we have largely simplified everything into just regularly buying index funds. This has freed up a lot of mental bandwidth. I also realized we are probably already at Coastfire, but plan to continue investing anyways.  Not sure what the point of the post is, maybe wanting to celebrate (?) with an audience that cares about this stuff

26. 24M, Reached ~4% completion of my 10-year FI journey. Delivering mail for USPS while setting up VERY agressive auto-investments. 3530 days left.: 100% is my earliest time to retire: 10 years of working at USPS so I qualify for both their deferred pension, and Social Security. If I don't believe my portfolio will survive by then, I'll keep working, but I'm confident as long as I stay frugal & don't touch my accounts until Jan/Apr when I gotta recalculate with the new contribution limits.  No guarantee I'll keep this job as being a mailman is more dangerous than one would assume. But, I've been having relatively consistent work as a PTF city carrier at the post office. Passed probation so my union can fight for me in case of management discipline/layoffs. Not guaranteed overtime all the time, but earning ~$72k gross lately so I'm satisfied, knowing every 46wks my pay automatically scales up a bit. Thanks, NALC.  Current net worth: ~$19k  Modded my investment strategy:  Going 60:40 C:I (SP500 : International) in my TSP because I see lots of potential in the international market for the next 10y, so I'm not going 75:25 for now. Contributing a fixed ~$1010 every paycheck to max it out, and USPS matches 5%. Will be my largest bridge income until 59.5; upon retirement, will rollover TSP to a Fidelity IRA & do 72t SEPPs. Contributing ~$288 biweekly to the Roth: half going to FSPGX/FZILX, half going to FBTC/FETH/FSOL/MSFT/AAPL/TSM. Who knows what'll happen to crypto in the next decade, but I know Apple/Microsoft/TSMC ain't going anywhere anytime soon. Keeping them + international stock here as a tax shelter from their dividends. Not worried about de-risking this for a while tbh. Contributing $140 weekly to the brokerage, split between FBTC/FETH/FSOL/NVDA/GOOGL/META/AMD/NET/MELI/AMZN. I live in MoCo MD so my state/local tax is nuts, so I intentionally picked these stocks to avoid dividend tax bombs a decade down the line. Gonna auto-DCA in these topdog companies that I trust for >=5 years, and I'll worry about de-risking into the SP500/T-Bills starting years 6-7. When I'm 26 (my dad's healthcare expires), I plan on getting a GEHA HDHP, opening a Fidelity HSA, then transferring the free employer contribution + my pre-tax money biweekly, maxing that baby out. Will have to lower my brokerage gambling in order to afford the healthcare premium/HSA. I'm young & arrogant, so I'm gobbling risk for now. Not advocating for stock-picking or crypto but I figured it would be entertaining to share.

27. $1 million net worth at 32. now what?: - TC $400k - 65% savings rate - maxed out 401k, after tax roth conversions, espp, hsa and backdoor roth IRA. the rest goes into VTI brokerage. immediately sell RSUs upon vesting. - HCOL city - renting, no home - single male  $27k cash (SPXX) $463k in brokerage (VTI) $60k roth IRA (FSKAX) $221k 401k (about even split roth and traditional dollars) $105 bitcoin $111k RSU/ESPP (company stock) $14k HSA (VTSAX)  total $1,001,000  how do i feel? slightly below average. i wish i had a wife and kids by this point.  “happiness is only real when shared”  not sure what i’m looking for by posting here, just wanted to tell someone i guess.  i am curious how i can convert some of my savings rate into something more fulfilling than just earlier retirement. nothing really interests me that much. i love my 400sq/ft apartment, listening to podcasts, making food, playing video games, etc. i work out a ton, go on hikes and am generally very healthy.  so my question is this. with this amount of security at this age, what are the highest ROI tangible things i could spend some money on to improve overall life satisfaction? (i know it’s supporting a wife and kids, but that’s not very direct)  i’m guessing the answer is nothing.

28. We (36M/36F) just paid off our ($600K) house in a medium cost of living city, what should we focus on next?: We currently have around $1.6M in assets and no significant loans or debts:  $600K house (paid off)  $250K in an IRA from a 401k rollover  $350K in a brokerage  $300K in a 401k  $30K in a 529 plan  My wife and I both work and we have a 2 year old, trying for another kid.  Combined our income is about $280K/yr  My wife doesn't want to work eventually but I still love my work and will continue to do so, probably not at the same level as I'm at right now after this company plays it's course but in some capacity

29. 27M MilitaryFIRE: 27M  $300K invested - 35/65 nontax/tax  $50K ish home equity (but don't really track it)  $6K cash (building this)  Planning to retire at 38 with  military pension, $4000/mo  VA disability, ~$1000/mo  rental income, ~$1000/mo  dividends, $1600/mo (2% yield of $1M port)  Investment withdrawal (emergency income), Up to $2500/mo (3% of $1M)  For expenses: Unless spouse or I get struck with an unexpected major health concern, our expenses should remain fairly low or similar to now which is about $3k-$4k/mo. We are quite conservative and get overwhelmed with owning too much stuff. No plans of kids or dogs. Only discretionaries we think we will want is to van travel, backpack in countries, occasional restaurants.  It boggles me when people here hit a new milestone and feel nothing. This has felt amazing, even though I know I'm one tweet away from being down $20k.

30. Hit $700k CAD: 700k CAD Late 20s. Work in tech.  $153k in RRSP $325k in margin $20k in btc Rest spread across TFSA, FHSA, HYSA  Sidebar: it is probable that I will get laid off within the next year or year and half with how things are trending but at least I’ll have a good cushion

31. Just hit $500k: 33M, just hit $492k in my main account, but with crypto holdings and a tiny emergency fund, I just peaked over the $500k mark.  I’m doing all I can maxing out HSA, ROTH IRA, and traditional 401k. Living paycheck to paycheck, happily though. I know there are areas I need to work on like building more of an emergency fund, and also increasing my income where I can afford to max out my 401k into ROTH instead.  This sub still makes me feel so far behind with my age, where I am in my journey, and my income not being as high as a lot of people here, but I’m here for it.  I currently don’t have a number set, as I never expected to retire at all in the past. Growing up, always hearing my peers talking about SS not being a thing when I’m their age, and not having anyone to teach me about money, I had to find out the hard way about quite a few things. But this milestone makes me think it’s actually possible.

32. Just became a "millionaire" at 30 with a blue collar job: I just realized between my accounts and home equity, I'm considered a millionaire. No tech job, no finance degree, no college diploma, just a lot of overtime. I'm a lineman, I make between 215k-240k a year depending on overtime (hint it's a lot lol) started working at my company when I was 19 and worked my way up through an apprenticeship and now sitting pretty comfortably. I do try to make my work-life balance good with travel and rock climbing (keeps me sane) but it's not the greatest at times.  I know every post in this sub seems like a humble brag but I just wanna show that hard work, smart savings, and time can add up you even for people without a degree. I honestly don't have my fire number yet but my house will be payed off in 12 years so that may be a good time. College isn't for everyone, I'm sure there's something out there that can work for you, just please don't destroy your body too much

33. It’s happening. I’m retiring this year!: So I spoke to my boss and his boss. I’m leaving by the end of the year. I’m so relieved and happy. Has anyone else given 6-8 months notice before? They do need quite a while to replace me and they said they would like me to stay as long as I want. They would even rip up my letter of intent anytime if I want which is very sweet. I told them I would leave sooner if they find a good replacement and I get them up to speed. I’m 54 and crossed the FI portion of FIRE 4 years ago so I’m definitely ready. So looking forward to a new adventure!!

34. From broke to FIRE in 20 years (reflection/celebration): Who you choose to go on your FIRE journey with matters a lot >> That was the insight in a conversation my husband and I have been having this weekend. Twenty years ago, he never imagined he'd have these options in life.  We're two DINKs in our 40s with good jobs ($192K + 5% bonus, $179K + 25% bonus). When I met him in 2009, he was early 30s fresh out of a divorce that left him with $30K in credit card debt on a ~$50K salary. No assets. The definition of broke. I was in my late 20s, and doing "fine." Ok but certainly not great salary (low $40K), 10% going to retirement, minimal savings, paid off car.  Through years of saving, living reasonably (not lean by any means), significantly increasing our incomes and education, and now a significant one-time bonus and modest inheritance (mid 6-figures), we are very close to FI, and he will have the opportunity to RE in 2029 if he desires (I plan to work until 2035).  He literally asked me, "How did we do this? I was broke when I met you." If we hadn't met, it's possible he would have spiraled about the debt, increased it with "treat yourself" moments, and resigned himself to a life of not getting ahead and become pretty resentful.  Instead, when we had an early finance conversation, I urged him to tackle it head-on and offered to help. Personal finance is my hobby, and he said as long as we could agree on our philosophy/budget, he'd be happy to operate within the guidelines I set.

35. Finally pulled the plug 49M: Worked for 26 years at a small software company, which was acquired by private equity and eventually by a corporation. Stayed at the corporation for a couple of years, but really couldn't get along with my new management and don't think that working for a big public company is for me. In December we got our layoffs targets which wouldn't have been pretty and my team would be heavily affected. Tried to reason with the management for a while, that did not work out and then I volunteered to be let go so i can get my severance.  Not quite sure if i'm fully RE, for now I think of it as taking a break but I have a feeling reentering a workforce might be a challenge in my 50s. Maybe i will try consulting or building something of my own.  Married, no kids, NW ~ 8.5M invested, not counting the house which we fully own. Living in VHCL and planning to stay here for now, projected expenses ~250k a year which includes paying for health insurance and also for my mom's retirement home.  This was my first week of not working. Feels weird, will take some getting used to.

36. I am really appreciating being 23% from my FIRE target: I should be done in 2-3.5 years. It's long, but short. I can see it on the horizon. I can taste it, feel it. I know I could retire now if I wanted to live on a tighter budget, I don't. I need to wait at least until January because several doors open up for me. All of my RSUs vest, I get to keep my lower property tax if I move (thanks Prop 19!), and I can apply for the rule of 55.  But I'm numb at work. I go through the motions. I don't hate my job, but I'm tired. September will be 30 years at the same company. My whole life in tech at a single company.  I'd like to think karma helped bring me here. I was in debt and struggling financially. My first week on the job, an honesty test presented itself. A wallet in the bathroom with $300 in cash in it. I really needed that money, but I knew it was wrong, so I found the owner. The rest is history.  I'm not even a religious person or believe in ghosts or other things. But I believe in being kind and helpful. I'd like to think the scales were tipped in my favor that day I returned the wallet. Now I just try to stay humble until I can retire.

37. [39m/$8.8 mil net worth] Living LeanFIRE life style with FatFIRE wealth - thinking about increasing my spending lately: So not going to go into detail about the source of my savings (I discussed it in another thread, I’ll link to it from a comment) but basically have religiously followed FIRE since 2016 with very high savings rates plus employed alternative investment strategies that I came up with. I’ve been FIREd for about 3 years now.  I’m currently sitting on around $8.8 million net worth, $7.8 million liquid, also have a wife and a son. I also have a cash flowing online product business I started which I consider semi-passive income and pays about $9k per month and is growing. So my current withdrawal rate is effectively zero. My safe withdrawal rate (including the $9k) is probably around $32k per month. My actual withdrawal rate is only $6k per month. Note that I am excluding my mortgage payments since I have treasuries to offset the balance, and also excluding car depreciation.  Basically I have decided to start upgrading my life style. I finally bought two new cars this past year, and also planning on buying a new house and selling my current one. We also go out to a lot of restaurants, and hopefully will travel more in the coming years too but it’s hard with a young child (plus going thru fertility treatment trying to make another).  It’s funny because I was just trying to become financially independent, but overshot it a bit, so now want to enjoy more of the benefits.  Anyways just feel happy I’ve reached some of these goals and it’s nice to step back a bit and think about it. It’s difficult to talk about here because once you reach post-FIRE levels everyone thinks you are just trying to brag or something.  Also wanted to mention the FIREd life has been pretty chill, I spend an hour or two working on my online business, go to the gym, go on runs/walks, spend tons of time with my toddler son, fix up my yard, deep clean my house, and see friends and family almost every day. One of my new vehicles is a BMW convertible and it’s fun to drive it around with the top down when the weather is nice. The other one is just a big new SUV.  Fortunately I know other people who aren’t stuck in jobs all day so we can have our kids spend time together and chat as parents.

38: I still can't fathom that my net worth is higher than my lifetime earning even though I'm still in my working years: According to my statement on ssa.gov website, my lifetime earning is 900k (after I manually added in my earning this year so far), and this is before tax income.  And I just took a screenshot of all of my accounts to commemorate the day I reached over 1M in net worth.  It's so crazy that I have accumulated more money than I have ever earned. Never before in my life I would have imagined that I would be a millionaire in my 20s. I'm turning 30 soon later this year and just last year I didn't know if I was going to hit 1M mark before my 30th birthday. Now I can say that I became a millionaire in my 20s =D, technically.

39. hit 200k invested at 29 and the feeling is completely different than I expected: I've been lurking here for about three years and this community genuinely changed how I think about money so I wanted to share this even though 200k feels small compared to a lot of posts here. quick background: started at zero at 25 after paying off student loans, income is around 78k in a LCOL city, no inheritance, no windfalls, just index funds and not lifestyle creeping when I got a few raises.  the thing I wasn't prepared for is how quiet the feeling is. I think I expected some kind of clear emotional shift when I hit a round number but I checked my accounts this morning and saw it crossed over and my first thought was just "huh, okay" and then I made coffee. I've been trying to figure out why it feels underwhelming and I think it's because the actual shift happened way earlier, somewhere around 50k, when I first felt like the money was genuinely working without me doing anything. the compounding stopped being theoretical and became something I could actually watch. that was the moment that felt significant. everything since has felt more like confirmation than revelation.  the thing I do feel is a kind of low grade calm that I didn't have in my early twenties when every unexpected expense felt like a crisis. my car needed $800 in repairs last month and I just. paid it. didn't rearrange anything, didn't stress for a week beforehand, just paid it and moved on. that feeling is woth more to me than the number honestly. curious if others felt the same when they hit early milestones or if the big emotional moment came later for you.

40. Reached first milestone!: I Wanted to share this.  I (26m) reached my first milestone of 100k! So happy and honestly I had a good time doing it. I was still able to travel, go to concerts, go out to eat, date, and live in a nice apartment in downtown.  My next milestone is to reach my coast fire number, which should be in the next 4 years. Let’s see.

41. We’re telling nobody else!: My partner and I (46F) celebrated $3,000,000 NW (including $2.6m investable assets) yesterday, and we have nowhere else to share the news.  Timeline:  1m in June 2020  2m in December 2024  3m in April 2026  Neither of us earn huge salaries. Neither of us has received a windfall nor do we expect one in the future. This is just steady saving over 20-25 years plus a very healthy stock market. I still have 12-13 years to go before FIRE but my partner wants to RE from his FT job in the next few years.  Now that FIRE seems close for my partner, I’m starting to worry that my math is wrong and I have no idea what I’m doing when it comes to retirement planning. How did you calm your nerves before you take the leap into early retirement?

42. Hit $900k milestone: With the market hitting a new all-time high this week, we crossed over the $900k milestone. Unless a complete disaster happens, we’ll be on track to hit our first $1 million within the next year. Is anyone else feeling the whiplash from this recent dip and recovery?  Anyway, some details… I’m 33M with my wife as a SAHM to our two boys, both under 3. My OTE in tech sales is $215k. I’ve been at my company for almost 10 years. First in Support, then Customer Success, now Account Management. We aren’t the fastest growing company around, but we’re profitable, the benefits are good and the pay has been growing steadily over that time, so I don’t plan to leave.  It’s amazing to look back on the past decade or so of work and see how far we’ve come by being consistent and investing aggressively. Maybe we will do something small this week to celebrate the recent milestone. My wife and I have a few things earmarked for when we hit $1 million. We’ll each have a ~$10k budget to spend. For me: gold chain or a Cartier tank. For her: a nice bag (Chanel?). We never buy anything like this so it will be a fun shopping trip. Then right back to saving as usual.

43. Quietly celebrating $2MM invested at 40 years old.:  We passed the magic line today (though I’m certain there will be upward and downward movement for some time).  I would love to share this news with family and friends, but know that we cannot!  My spouse is going to work themself to death regardless of how much we save, but I feel like we should be close to cutting back on saving and starting to enjoy more of our earnings.  Anybody want to share experiences on doing so? Or how did upgrading to the nicer house, or having that kid impact your FIRE journey?  40yo DINKs, $310k gross between us. Fully funding 457(b) plans and IRAs.

44. Finally reached $100k: After beginning my FIRE journey nearly 2 years ago, I’ve finally reached $100k net worth!! It’s a small milestone, but as a 30 year old that was previously financially illiterate for the last 27 years of my life, this is huge for me. I’ve got a long way to go, but I’ve never been so motivated by what I’ve been able to do over a short amount of time by just grinding. Thanks to this sub for a lot of the insights!

45. 39M, hit $8.5 million net worth today! FIRE'd since 2023: Hello everyone, so happy to say I hit $8.5 million today. I have been basically FIRE'd for the past 2 years. I have been lurking (and participating on/off) in the FIRE communities on Reddit since around 2016 on various usernames, and have kept diligent spreadsheets of my numbers over time and have been striving to optimize them.  I am not totally sure why I am posting this, but maybe it will give some optimism to young people who are new to the FIRE path.  Without going into whole my life story, I graduated college in 2009 and started work as a software engineer soon after making about $80k per year counting bonus. I kept the same job for 5 years and my pay didn't meaningfully increase until I started job hopping to various positions to make more money.

46. The market is changing on the daily... but today I hit 2,000,000 net for the first time. So today I celebrate and I am sure tomorrow will be a different story.: I am 44 and just been saving little by little. I also have been fortunate that I bought my house during the 2008 recession and paid it off last year paid 150,000 worth like 350,000 now, but most of the money is in mutual funds, 401ks etc. I haven't done any high risk investing just slow and steady.

47. 30m hitting $1M milestone: I came to US for university and found a software engineer job after graduation. Been working in tech industry for 7+ yrs and living relatively frugal compared to my friends so I am quite satisfied with what I have made so far. Right now I think I would stay at current company and maybe start family around age of 35 which I hope by then I would have more savings.  breakdown:  80% S&P500  15% 401k  5% HSA + Cash  Anyone on the similar boat to share their advice? would greatly appreciate it.  also open to any question.

48. Positive Net Worth!: 27 years old - with today's paycheck, my net worth is positive for the first time! I graduated law school a little under 2 years ago with almost $180,000 in student loan debt (and very little savings), so a positive net worth feels like a big milestone!  Breakdown is below:  Assets:  401k: $36,000  Roth IRA: $17,600  HSA: $6,500  Cash (emergency fund + wedding fund): ~$33,000  Liabilities:  Student Loans (refi'd to 4.2%): $85,000  Credit card balances (paid in full every month): ~$4,500

49. Just turned 25 & just hit $180k: I honestly don’t know how this happened, but I’m so privileged to be in this position. I knew nothing about finances and became financially independent at the age of 20. I still know very little, but I feel like I’ve just gotten super lucky every step of the way.  About me: I graduated college two years early in 2021 so I would have zero debt (with a history degree, too! No regrets, but again, I got lucky). I moved to LA for my first full-time job with about $5k in my savings account. My salary then was $43k/year. After a few months I moved to another HCOL area in Northern CA, switched jobs ($70k) and stayed there for three years until my salary hit $92k. I started my third job a few months ago with a salary of $90k in a new HCOL area.  So:  2021 - $43k  2022 - $70k  2023 - $77k  2024 - $85k  2025 - $92k, 90k  2026 - $90k  I only started tracking my income in April 2024, from which I had saved up $74k. Now, two years later, I just hit $180k. I honestly don’t know what to do with it. I live with my partner, don’t want kids, don’t see the need for a car (my city has great public transportation). Most of my expenses go to food & traveling (I spend more on food/coffee than rent…super bad habit, I know…).  I still cannot comprehend my own net worth; it feels so abstract/not tied to me in any way? I literally got lucky every step of the way here, like graduating early and starting work when the market was more stable compared to my peers, or somehow finding jobs with amazing benefits & a great work-life balance… It wasn’t until I found this sub that I realize maybe I can try to retire early? I’m not sure how doable that is but I’m starting to learn & read more about it!!  Here’s my current breakdown:  401k - $63k  403b - $5k  HYSA - $37k  Roth IRA - $46k  I bonds - $23k  Random stock investments - $6k

50. Real story of a structure for early retirement at 27: This year i reached my Coast FIRE structure, and I wanted to share a few steps from that journey.  Disclaimer 1: I have not retired. I have a good lifestyle, and I actually like my work, so I plan to keep living normally. What I built was exactly the financial structure I wanted to have in place in case I ever decide to retire.  Disclaimer 2: This structure is not being fully “used” in practice. I do not live in the main house mentioned below — I live in a more comfortable apartment in a better area — and I do not live off my investments either, since I reinvest 100% of the returns. But just knowing I could pull the trigger and live this way gives me an incredible sense of peace.  Here is my Coast FIRE setup:  I own a property in São Paulo, Brazil, with 5 houses on it: the main house plus 4 small rental units in the back. Those 4 units, after income tax, brokerage fees, vacancy, and other usual costs, generate around R$3,000 net per month. Everything is fully paid off, and the property also has solar panels. On top of that, the rental contracts are adjusted by Brazil’s inflation index, IPCA.  In financial assets, I have around R$1.3 million net invested across stocks, fixed income, and Brazilian REITs (FIIs). After inflation, this portfolio basically generates around R$6,500 per month in real terms.  So in total, that is about R$9,000 per month in passive income, plus a paid-off home.  It is hard to describe how much pressure that takes off your back. This is not my dream house, and R$9,000 is not my dream income either. But just knowing I built this safety net — with dignity and comfort — makes me sleep 99% better.  FAQ  -> No inheritance money. I really started from the bottom. In my parents’ house, our family income was around R$3,000 for 3 kids.  -> I worked as an employee for years at one company, then left, started my own business, and it worked out. I made my money through my company, and in one specific month I was able to save 91% of my income.

51. I'm so glad I got serious about Fire in my early 20s - the power of safety net: Soo, I just wanted to share my experience as to what it's like to have a safety net when life just hits a wall. Not sure if it's considered a milestone or a celebration, but I think my experience shows how impactful it is to start a FIRE mindset early on.  To start, I'm in my early 30s and I just want to say how glad I am for entering the FIRE rabbit hole in my early 20s. A little more than a year ago, I was working at my dead-end job and I literally experienced a serious burn out. I just wasn't there mentally. Even as I look back, I don't really know what happened. All I remember was that I experienced a mental crisis and I resigned on the spot.

52. Reached $3m in my mid-30s!: Mid-30s m and just reached $3m invested.  I live in a VHCOL urban area. Even if I move it would likely be somewhere high cost...not into small towns or rural areas. I think I need at least 2.5x-3x more so still the "boring middle" for me I guess.

53. 24, feeling so grateful for this milestone. Hard work actually pays off.: Hey guys, first time posting in here. I have been just a reader off this subreddit for the past 2 years and finally decided to make an account and drop a post.  I am a 24 year old based in the midwest and have been in startups/entrepeneuership since 17 years old.  I have started my own things in ecom and consumer apps and have had great success. I am excited to announce I have been able to reach the $500k networth milestone this week at the age of 24 with zero inheritance.  I am geniuenly so happy and extremely grateful to have also recently got a job in the crypto space paying $210k so I am able to FIRE so much more. My expenses are $3k month (2k on rent, and $1k on other living expenses).

54. Almost to 200k at 23yo I can’t believe it: I started saving from a $0 nw at 16 years old at Walmart and made it here. In 2025 I made the highest income I ever have of almost 70k. I have never been given any money except for a couple hundred here and there for birthdays. It is possible if you set your mind to it.  This past year my savings rate was about 60% live very simply. I don’t have a specific nw target because the market is so unpredictable in the future but hopefully 500k by 30.  Here is a table of my NW over the last year. It’s crazy for me to finally see compound interest working. I’m proof that you can do this without being a software developer in SF. I also drive a 7k paid off Toyota Corolla :)  March 25 $117,938  April 25 $115,591  May 25 $123,800  June 25 $131,159  July 25 $140,083  August 25 $146,093  Sep 25 $158,994  October 25 $171,506  Nov 25 $178,183  Dec 25 $182,524  Jan 26 $183,149  Feb 26 $188,826

55. 1.5m milestone today yet can't share with anyone (50yo): retired at the end of 2025 and was already getting weird vibes about my retirement from friends and family. no way i'd share that i hit a networth of 1.5 million just today.

56. Thank you for the encouragement!: So I’m on my FIRE journey, 29, making six figures, and living way below my means in order to maximize the amount I’m investing. I hardly do anything for myself nowadays due to the guilt of spending. We all know FIRE isn’t something you just do, it’s a mindset. It’s a lifestyle.  Recently saw a comment from someone on here that said “A person has two lives. The second one begins when they realize they only have one” and that hit me like a million pounds of bricks.  Realizing more and more how I could die tomorrow not having experienced the joy that life has to offer due to saving and investing so much.  Decided to buy me a $400 cologne, going to start putting money aside for international trips every 2 years, enrolling in some Mandarin classes, and about to sign up for Salsa dancing lessons and I feel no guilt at all. Might even ask my esthetician out on a date as I don’t wanna live with the regret of not knowing what could have been for not even taking the chance. Life is short and the next day isn’t promised so make the most of it while you’re here while you still save and invest. I’m grateful to have stumbled across this group.

57. My crazy idea of an “inheritance” savings fund just hit $1M. It will be worth millions in 30-40 years when I finally die.: So…I totally get the die with zero crowd! But I also am a big believer that windfalls are game changing for a persons life.  Even a couple hundred grand in the bank takes so much pressure off.  Either way… I don’t think there’s a wrong or right answer to it. Just be good parents, do what you can etc…  However, I have earmarked in a separate fund “not mine” that I contribute to. I don’t even count this with my net worth it’s 100% separate from my normal planning. I plan to give it entirely to my kids and grandkids. It just hit $1M and I am now coast on it and will no longer contribute (note I am 40 so quite some time and plan to FIRE at 50).  I could do so much with that money such as stop working (it’s okay I can suck it up for another decade), but the boost for others will be worth it even if I can’t see it happen.

58. Hit 2x salary and bonus saved at 35 (married 1 income 2 kids): Retiring in 40s is a dream beyond grasp but maybe this means 55 is a realistic possibility? Vast majority of the $310k is in traditional 401k and esop (which can get rolled into an IRA when i retire) and we've got the student loans down to $10k @ 7% which we've been hammering at and should finish off with bonus and tax return and couple more months of payments, and $8k @ 3.5% which we'll just let ride. Then that frees up the agressive monthly payment we've been throwing at it for half Roth and half living life better.  work does 4% match on 8% contribution for 401k, contributes 10-12% for esop shares, and does 2% match on 4% 529 contribution which we'll hold ~70k for ourselves as that can get rolled into roth IRA and the rest would be for kids college or if it overfunds we'll just pay the penalty and taxes because with the 50% contribution boost it ends up still worth it.  So double salary saved at 35, and ~25% being saved away looks like it gets us around 18x salary and 25x expenses around 55 and that's just a good feeling running those numbers this morning on top of seeing that federal student loan number finally lose a digit ($9,985 lol)

59. $100k 401k on my 34th Birthday!: I did the math and I will have crossed the $100K milestone my 401(k) right before my 34th birthday! This is my first major financial milestone, and I’m just excited to share

60. Turned 20 and hit 50K!: Turned 20 after New Years and hit $50,000 in savings/investments! Been looking forward to this goal since I started investing and have a (somewhat conservative) goal for $100,000 by 25.

61. Almost a quarter million at 29: Hello! I'm a long time lurker and feel I owe a lot to this sub for how far I've come in my fire journey. I'm about to hit a big milestone and I feel like I don't have anyone else to share it with.  I turned 29 in December and have a net worth of $245,033 thanks to the advice I've found here. About $206,804 spread among my roth 401k, roth ira and taxable brokerage. $42,936 in my checking/savings (25k of that is for a future house down-payment).  Planning to switch over to funding a traditional 401k this year to help save for a house. Is there any advice you'd give someone at my stage heading into their 30s?

62. Six Figures Finally!: After a long career severely underpaid in the non-profit sector, a just-announced 3% raise means I’ve hit six figures! Woot!!!!! I didn’t think we were getting one due to all the recent cuts to mental/healthcare funding. A small happy dance for me (also a bit of encouragement/support/visibility for other non-high earners around here).

63. How did money go for you in 2025?: How was your 2025 money year? Saving? Spending? Earning? I had my best year ever, even with Wife being unemployed. 80% SR! Previous 5 years were: 77%; 73%; 73%; 58%; 63%  Gross Income:	$478,000 Taxes:	-$112,000 Net Income:	$366,000 Spending	-$73,000 Spending % NI:	19.95% Saving:	$293,000 Saving % NI:	80.05% Estimated Withdrawal (post-mortgage):	$68,000 Net worth:	$2,530,000 FI Assets:	$2,310,000 FI Assets after Mortgage payoff:	$2,150,000 Leanfire (4%):	126.47% Fire (3%):	94.85% Fatfire (2.5%):	79.04% Current WR:	3.16%

64. I have crawled across that finish line and can be free..: 30 seconds ago, I hit the moment of Rule of 55. Wifey went to bed an hour ago. Had a whiskey to celebrate the moment. 40+ years of working full time. Can now take three pensions and a nice 401k. House paid. Zero debt. Don’t owe a penny to anyone other than insurance, taxes, and maintenance.  I’m sure there are a LOT of you out there who just breathed a nice moment as well. Congrats to all of you who did it right. You may be generationally joining the moment of relief, or like me, the first in my family to not repeat the financial mistakes of the family line.  Either way, whatever happens now is MY choice. I’m actually looking forward to, after often literally making my hands bleed, sitting on my front porch in a coffee-stained tee shirt, yelling at kids to get off my lawn (J/K).  Congrats to all those who did it right here. I’m not addressing the “hyper-income” ones, but rather those who did it the really hard way. You started working at, say 15, sacrificed so much, took the right risks, and as of now, can pull that lever and enjoy the next chapter.

65. Made $700 doing a double with my secondary and tertiary job: Posting here because i don’t have anyone in my real life I can tell. Did a double today and made $700 between the jobs. It’s not consistent and a more realistic number between a double is probably somewhere in the neighborhood of $400-$500, plus both of these jobs are seasonal and will wane as the weather heats up (they are service jobs dependent on snowbirds). Not as high as you really big earners, but still, as someone trying to take fire seriously now, I’m taking it as a small victory, as this money is purely for investing for the future.

66. Hit $100k in my taxable brokerage today: When I started this journey at 15 I would have thought this was gonna take years, but alas here we are… less 6 years later.  Don’t forget, it’s a journey… cherish it

67. A small celebration for doubling my 401k this year at 21 years old: Hi all, just realized I doubled my 401k this year from $4k to $8k as a full-time college student. Most of that came from working fulltime over the summer and the fantastic markets this year, but it has me feeling hopeful for the future nonetheless.  I plan on graduating in fall with about $6k in student loans as my only debt, the rest was covered by scholarships and financial aid. I'll be working fulltime making $73k a year with the company I interned at last summer. The short term goal is to rent until I know where I want to live for at least 5 years then buy a house. I'm hoping if I continue saving ~20-25% for retirement, I can FIRE in my early 50s. My 401k is 100% index funds and I plan to keep it that way for a long time. If anyone has any advice, please share!

68. Today, I decided to start my FIRE journey.: Today, I’ve decided that I will start my FIRE journey. I’m 28. I have decided that my passion job that I’ve dedicated my life to for the past decade is not actually making me happy, and I don’t see myself doing this in long term.  I currently make $88k/year income before taxes and spend ~$45k/year. My retirement portfolio is at $120k. I don’t really count home equity into this calculation.  I’d like to retire on $75k. With employer match and other retirement benefits, it looks like I should get there around the time I’m 42 assuming that I get a regular job in a year or two (want to finish up some work now), at a withdrawal rate of 3.25%.  Simple, but not necessarily easy. I’m not a hyper consumerist person, and have hobbies that are relatively cheap. All I want is a calm life with reduced anxiety.

69. I went on a 6 month sabbatical and realized I don’t want to FIRE anymore. 37F, $4M, single/not married/no kids.: 6 months ago I hit my FIRE number. I was expecting to retire early and just travel more but my mom advised me to take a break first.  I ended doing a long journey in Peru other small South American towns to find myself. A lot of this was quite the trip to focus on music, yoga, and feeling free with other like minded folks.  I am so glad I did it. Highly recommend.  I met so many amazing people and life long friends. It made me realize that my life is actually quite wonderful.  Working is super hard sometimes, but I barely work “real” 40 hours a week … if even … and am extremely high income ($400k TC).  So why wouldn’t I continue coasting away and making a bunch of money. My budgeting doesn’t have to be strict.  I can always vacation more and more extravagantly to get the reset I need without just fully committing to quitting. It would also be near impossible for me to meet a good guy in the city without a job IMO.  So ultimately…… yeah FIRE just isn’t for me. And that’s okay!

70. Gains are coming faster than ever m27: My portfolio is about to reach $750,000, which feels insane. Over the last few months, the stock market has been on a roll, and it's clearly showing in my portfolio. I'm really excited to reach my $2 million goal; even if I don't invest right now, I'll get there eventually.

71. I can’t believe I am saying this. But my life is amazing and I am so grateful for being a millennial.:  My situation is awesome:  $2M in brokerage + retirements A $1.3M home ($450k equity) at 2.5% freaking interest rate Basically day 1 of investing and starting my career the market has done nothing but make me a ton of money. Nothing fancy just index funds.  Then somehow this world made my home value go up 20-30% and let me refinance a near 30 year term at 2.5%.  It almost feels criminal. I keep my head down, stick to the very simple FIRE plan, and everything is working out on almost easy mode.  My current FIRE goal is $4M.

72. Paid off my house: Just wanted to share that today my newly built house is fully paid off. 33M, EU based - total cost of the house around 380k € (~440k $).  Feeling super grateful, now planning on rebuilding fully safety net and heavily investing.  The reason I started with mortgage repayment is that mortgage rates are above 7% in my country and we have a 19% tax on capital gains. Meaning I’d need to have guaranteed ~9% return on any other investment.

73. From declined bananas to $100k invested at 33: I grew up in St. Paul, MN and I guess the inner city school system was a joke.  Lots of fights, dropped out at 16. Worked at Target, got ged. Fractured my legs from over use at one point, skipped health insurance, couldn't afford the bus, hit my low when I was trying to buy freaking bananas at Cub and my card declined. I actually asked if they could ring just one up since I could cover that. They did but that was embarrassing.  Went to school got a degree and struggled to make ends meet. Had no comprehension of how money works. Wasted most of it... eventually went for a Bachelors degree and finally just had enough.  Paid off the student loans, focused on health, and maxed out all possible retirement accounts.  I crossed the $100k mark today (85k in VOO and Fxaix, rest is fncmx, vug, and NVDA). Was at 0 two years ago.  I should be fine. 33 now 6k in student loans at 2.5% left, 40k emergency fund, 14k in my checking, own a 23 Camry...  Still I basically wasted a decade and looking back it's pure chance I got out of the cycle of poverty.  All, I know is the school system doesn't help prepare anyone.  The people at the very top all seem to be born and raised over seas and our school system cant even teach nutrition or wealth generation.

74. 27F - Just hit $500k Milestone!: Details  Expenses: about $25k/year, live with partner in HCOL area.  Salary: $75k/year for the last 4 years (environmental consulting)  Side business income: average $52k/year for the last 5 years (professional photography)  Misc other income: $1-7k/year (odd jobs, side hustles). I have continued to do exactly that for the past four years, saving a little more than $100k per year, bringing me to half a million now. I am looking to be a millionaire by about 30 and start my coasting soon. Big thanks to the advice I've gleaned from this sub and other resources. So excited to be looking at a future of not working for the rest of my life!

75. 401k Millionaire: Today I hit a milestone I’ve been working towards for 25 years! My 401k finally crossed $1 million. No one I can tell except my wife.  Cheers

76. Hit $2m by 30: I got really, really lucky with my RSUs. Until a year ago I thought I'd be around 800k at 30.  Now I'm accelerating my FIRE plans and moving abroad. Flights are booked.  Wild to be here. Focusing on happiness now above all else, for about the first time.

77. hit $100k at 26!: I (26F) enjoy reading everyone’s milestone posts so here’s mine! Just hit $100k net worth after ~3 years working full time.  Current breakdown: $23k cash (mostly HYSA for emergencies), $45k 401k, 31k Roth IRA, $4k HSA, $2k company stock. Only debt is credit card balance for the month $4k.  I work in biotech and salary has increased from $85k - $110k over the past couple of years. I’ve lived in 2 VHCOL cities (Boston, SF) where my spending averages $45k - $50k annually.

78. First day of retirement (43 years old): Today is my first day of retirement or at least semi-retirement!  43 years old, single (divorced), no kids. I lived in VHCOL places all my adult life until a HCOL (feels MCOL to me) the last few years after my divorce. I lost 57% of my net worth in the divorce, but with a good income, lower cost of living, and more prudent lifestyle, I've been able to save it all back and then some in the last few years.  My financial assets are $2M. It's split about 40% retirement, 40% invested, 20% cash/bonds. Obviously pretty cash heavy, but I do plan to put some of that into the market over time (but enjoying the low SORR in the meantime). Paid off house worth about $625K in a low property tax state. Also more house than I need, so downsizing is very viable.  Two other variables: (1) I own a lot of startup stock that is likely to be worth zero, which is what I assume, but could be worth from about $250K to a couple million in the next year; (2) I might get an inheritance in the next 10-15 years of up to $1-1.5M, but I assume it will be zero.

79. Just Passed Quarter of a Million - Reflection + Personal Question: Hey all, today is a big day for me (25M) as I just passed 250k net worth. I made a post about my 100k milestone just a little over two years ago on my main, but going forward I’m posting on my alt just for anonymity reasons. A lot has changed for me since then, but at the same time it feels like not much has changed at all. I’m still working the same job and just saving what I can every paycheck.  The Breakdown: 401k - 131k Roth IRA - 58k Taxable Brokerage - 31k FSA - 18k E-Fund - 10k Checking: 5k  While this is an exciting milestone for me, I also feel like a kid sitting in the back of the car constantly asking “Are we there yet?” I know that this will be a long road trip, but it’s tough not to dream about the destination. Alas, nothing to do but to keep pushing on.

80. We’re paying off our mortgage: My wife and I are in our 50s, life-long savers and investors living in VHCOL area. Two young adult daughters thru college and now establishing their careers and living independently. We have an upper 7 figure NW and are ready to call it quits! (Although my wife loves her job, so will probably never actually retire. Which is fine w me!!)  Anyway we met w our financial planner yesterday and he made the case for us to pay off the 340k mortgage balance on our 1.8M home. It’s a 2.875% note so we’ve been hesitant to pay it down aggressively. However due to our tax bracket he showed us why allocating some of our cash to just zeroing it out now, makes sense for us.  My wife and I are stunned that we’ve reached this milestone. Once we pay this off we will literally have zero debt. Holy. Crap.
